# Diagnosing-Pneumonia-Cases-by-Image-based-Deep-Learning
ABSTRACT: According to the World Health Organization (WHO), pneumonia kills about 2 million children under 5 years old every year and is consistently estimated as the single leading cause of childhood mortality, killing more children than HIV/AIDS, malaria, and measles combined. The risk of pneumonia is especially large in developing nations where billions face energy poverty and rely on polluting forms of energy. In such regions, the problem can be further worsened due to limited medical resources and personnel. For example, in Africa’s 57 nations, a gap of 2.3 million doctors and nurses exists. For these populations, accurate and fast diagnosis means everything. It can guarantee timely access to treatment and save much needed time and money for those already experiencing poverty. The dataset we collected from Kaggle consists of very few samples and that too unbalanced. The aim and purpose of this study is to develop a robust deep learning model from scratch on this limited amount of data for the diagnosis of pediatric pneumonia using chest X-ray images.

One key element of diagnosis is radiographic data. Since chest X-rays are routinely obtained as standard of care and can help differentiate between different types of pneumonia. However, rapid radiologic interpretation of images is not always available, particularly in low-resource settings where childhood pneumonia has the highest incidence and the highest rates of mortality. So, this AI model could help and assist doctors in identifying pneumonia in children and facilitate rapid referrals for children needing urgent intervention.
